Welcome to Movies Explained, today
we're looking at the movie 7500.
The story starts at Berlin airport,
where people are moving around,
waiting to board their planes.
The camera zooms in to Vedat,
who the officers are searching before boarding the
plane. His various shots play where he buys sodas,
sits next to a strange man, and walks around
the hallways. The screen goes black, and the
name of the movie, 7500, appears.
The next scene is in the plane,
where flight attendants and pilots are entering
the plane. Michael Lutzmann takes the pilot seat
while Tobias Ellis sits next to him. They
are discussing the details of the airplane.
Michael says, “The plane is technically okay;
only a tire has a small crack which you will
change tonight.” He stands up and goes out for
a while. One of the flight attendants, Gokce,
comes into the cockpit and closes the door
behind. She tells Tobias, “My mother called
and said we didn't get in the kindergarten next
door.” Tobias says, “We will find a solution; you
don't have to worry.” He further says, “There is
another kindergarten which is also good but it is
far away.” Gokce says, “I want Deniz to have some
German kids around.” They talk for a while and
Gokce leaves when Michael comes back in. He says
to Tobias, “You guys seem to know each other”,
to which he says, “We try to keep our professional
and personal lives separate but can't.” Michael
assumes that they are married, but Tobias tells
him that they have a kid, Deniz, together who
is currently staying at Gokce's mother, but they
are not married. Mario comes in and brief Michael
on the details. He leaves and says, “I will be
down if you need me.” Gokce comes in and gives
something to Tobias. She then asks the pilots,
“Are you ready to board the plane?” Michael
replies, “We are born ready.” He asks Gokce,
“Where your name comes from?” She tells him,
“It comes from Turkey and my father was a Turk.”
She leaves, and Michael starts giving a departure
briefing. The flight attendants are welcoming
people while Michael and Tobias talk. Tobias
tells Michael upon asking that he has been for
ten years and is 31. While they are talking,
Mario comes in again and says, “I have bad news.
Two passengers are missing, and both have luggage
on the plane. We tried finding them but couldn't.”
Michael says, “We are not going to wait for them;
you can unload their luggage.” Tobias says, “We
can wait if them of you want”, but Michael says,
“I hate waiting”. Tobias is checking his phone
when Michael points out two people coming towards
the plane. They are the missing passengers which
the pilots recognize. Mario contacts the cockpit
and says two people are coming your way. He also
informs Michael that he didn't unload the luggage
yet. He signs off by saying that I will come
up to you with the loading papers in a while.
Michael speaks with the passengers and
welcomes them to the flight to Paris. He
tells them that the boarding is complete and
the plane will leave on time. He explains that
Tobias Ellis will fly them today, and they will
contact the passengers with more information
during the flight. Tobias says, “We are ready
for the flight.” They go over the pre-flight
checks when Nathalia comes in and asks the
pilots, “What you want to have in your meals.”
Tobias chooses sandwich and water while
Michael asks for only non-carbonates
water. She leaves, and after completing all the
checks, they take off. They contact European 162
and go over the details of the track and weather
etc. Michael informs people about the turbulence
and asks them to fasten their seatbelts for their
safety. Michael tells him that tomorrow's weather
doesn't look so bad, to which Tobias replies,
“I haven't checked it out yet.” Nathalia comes
in with the food in the cockpit when several men
attack from behind, trying to control the cockpit.
Both the pilots are shot and are wounded.
Tobias makes an effort to keep one of the
attackers out and closes the door to the cockpit
while Michael struggles with the other attacker.
While trying to get the hijacker named Kinan off
him, he sets the plane off the trajectory. Tobias
gets up and renders Kinan unconscious with a fire
extinguisher. Michael tells him to press the nose,
which he does and keeps the plane on track.
Various noises are coming into the cockpit of the
hijackers trying to spread chaos in the people.
Tobias contacts European 162 and tells them they
have an emergency. European 162 asks, “What is
the problem?”, and he says, “7500.” Tobias tells
the man on the radio that the plane is hijacked
and the pilot is injured. The attackers tried to
storm into the cockpit, but they have stopped them
for now and have complete control of the plane.
The man on the radio asks about the status of
the flight attendants, to which Tobias says,
“I am not aware.” He goes into the details when
Kinan starts to gain consciousness. Tobias leaves
his seat and beats him with his feet, and ties
his hands with tape. He tells Michael to keep
the pressure on the wound and talk to him while
Tobias ties Kinan with a belt. Tobias comes back
to his seat and asks Michael how Michael is doing.
He comes in contact with European 162 and says,
“I want to make a landing in Berlin”, to which
the man replies, “It will take 30 minutes,
so you have to make your landing to Hanover, which
is the nearest.” Tobias confirms the location,
and the man tells him, “We have informed
Hanover of an emergency landing and are
making the necessary preparations.” Upon further
asking, Tobias tells the European 162 that one
of the flight attendants is dead while he hopes
others are safe. The man on the radio asks, “How
many hijackers are there and how they are armed?”
Tobias says, “I have seen the four of them,
but there may be more at the back of the plane.
I didn't see any weapons except broken glass,
which they are using as knives.” Tobias signs
off from the radio to take care of his wound.
He wraps a bandage around his wounded arm to
stop the bleeding and comes back to his seat.
Tobias asks Michael how he is doing, but
this time gets no reply. He tries to get
him off the seat and at last succeeds. Ellis
tries giving him compressions and breathe but
receives no response. He comes back to the seat
and tells European 162 that the captain is dead.
The man informs him that landing at Hanover is
ready, and two Eurofighter are heading your way.
He takes the phone and starts talking to the
people. He says, “We have complete control
of the plane. Several men tried to storm in the
cockpit, but we prevented it. We will be making
an emergency landing in 20 minutes in Hanover.
Stay calm and fasten your seat belts.” He looks at
the screen and sees the attackers threatening to
kill one of the hostages. He connects to European
162 and tells them that hijackers threaten to
kill a hostage if they don't open the door.
The man says, “You know you can’t do it.” He
takes the phone and talks to the hijackers.
They start talking to him in German,
to which he says, “I am American so
please say whatever you are saying in English.”
Vedat asks Tobias where Kinan is. He shouts and
yells and says that you can't land the plane. If
you land it, we will kill the boy. Tobias replies,
“I can't open the door you have to get away from
the boy.” The hijacker's named Vedat and Daniel
keep saying that you have to open the door or
kill the boy. The hijackers start counting from 10
and say, you have 10 seconds, or the boy will
die—Tobias answers I cannot do anything. I am
sorry and turns off the screen. The banging
continues on the door while Tobias goes
over the landing details. He turns the
screen on and finds the hostage dead.
The man from European 162 comes on the radio with
the updates of the landing. Tobias tells him that
he didn’t open the door, and the hijackers killed
the boy. The man tells him that the fighter jets
will be around him in two minutes. Tobias takes
the phone and says to the hijackers, “I have
talked to the authorities, and they are saying
when we land and refuel, you can go anywhere
you like and negotiate your terms. We don’t have
enough fuel, so we have to land.” Vedat and Daniel
keep saying that we don’t want to land; you will
see all these people die if you do. Daniel goes
into the cabin and brings Gokce with him. Tobias
becomes overwhelmed and begs the hijackers to let
the woman go. He says, “I will kill Kinan if
you do not let her go.” Left with no choice,
Tobias picks up the phone and addresses the
people. He says, “The hijackers will kill a
young woman in front of the plane. You can
stop them. The hijackers don’t have any guns;
they have broken glass. They are going
to kill her. If you work together,
you can overpower the hijackers and kill them.”
He begs them to come forward and save Gokce.
Vedat asks Tobias over the phone, that why are
you not opening the door? Daniel is going to
kill everyone. Tobias tries to talk to Vedat
when Daniel leaves. Tobias says to Vedat,
“I know you are not like him; you can stop him.
You are better than him.” Vedat says, “I can’t”,
but Tobias keeps on telling him that he can and
he should. He begs him and cries for his help.
Daniel brings Gokce in front of the camera
while she begs him not to kill her. She
keeps on repeating that she has a son, let me go.
Tobias tells the people to fasten their seatbelts
Vedat tries to fight Daniel, but he fails. After
going through all the possibilities, Tobias agrees
to open the door to the cockpit, but Gokce says,
“You don’t have to listen to them.” The hijackers
keep on threatening her while she says her
last words to Tobias. She tells Tobias to
take care of their son Deniz. Daniel kills
Gokce at last. Tobias is devastated by this,
and he screams and shouts while hitting
different things in the cockpit. The radio
calls Tobias many times, and so he comes
in and reports to European 162. The German
defense department speaks with him and tells him
that we will escort him to Hanover, follow us.
Meanwhile, Kinan wakes up and sets himself free.
Kinan hits Tobias, and he becomes unconscious.
Kinan opens the cockpit door and lets Vedat in
while the passengers attack the other hijackers.
Kinan clears his intentions of crashing the plane,
which makes Vedat scared. The fear of death makes
Vedat strike Kinan with the broken glass, which
kills him after a brief fight. Tobias says Vedat
to set him free and let him take control of the
plane. Vedat helps Tobias stabilize the plan.
Tobias connects with European 162 and updates
them on the situation. He says, I have gained
control of the plane. One of the hijackers is dead
while the other one is here with me.” The man on
the radio says, "I want to confirm that you are
ready for the emergency landing.” Tobias says,
“Yes, of course, I am.” Vedat panics and says,
“You can't land; you have to drop me somewhere
else.” Tobias repeats what he said before, “We are
out of fuel. Once we refuel, you can go anywhere
you like.” Tobias confirms the landing to the
man on the radio. He says Vedat to sit down and
fasten his seat belt as the landing will not be
smooth. He says to Vedat, “I am going to inform
the passengers if that is okay with you.” Vedat
permits him, and Tobias speaks to the passengers.
He says, “The hijackers have taken control of
the plane, but they have agreed to an emergency
landing. Stay calm and tighten your belts because
the landing will not be a smooth one.” Vedat looks
around and finds the jets and asks Tobias what
that, to which he replies it is just the standard
protocol is. Tobias gives some instructions to
Vedat to follow as they make the landing. Vedat
helps him to coordinate the landing, and finally,
the plane lands. The police are surrounding the
parameter. The man from the radio says, “The
police will talk to you on this frequency.”
Vedat becomes scared and starts crying. He
questions Tobias about what he is doing.
Tobias tells him that I have opened the emergency
exit if you want to go. Vedat tells him to come
and sit on the floor next to Kinan’s body. Vedat
points to the radio and says, “How can I talk to
the man speaking.” Tobias tells him to use the
microphone on the left side and push the button.
Vedat talks to the negotiator and asks him for
fuel. He becomes aggressive and emotionally
unstable, realizing what he has just done. Vedat
sits close to Tobias and starts talking to him.
He asks his name, where does he lives, and talks
about the part in Wilhelmstrasse. Tobias tells
him that I go there often with my son
Deniz. Vedat asks Tobias about the unique
name of his son, to which Tobias replies,
“It is Turkish and he got it from her mother,
who is from Turkey.” Vedat asks, “What
happened to his mother”, and Tobias thinks of
striking him with the hidden glass but he stops.
Vedat loses control once again and starts yelling
at Tobias. Tobias tries to talk to him and asks
him his age. Vedat says, “I am just 18.” Vedat
checks the news and finds everyone talking
about the hijacking. He becomes angry at
Tobias and says, “What did you do?”. The
negotiator on the outside tells him not to
move. Finally, the police take a shot at Vedat
and strike him down. They rescue Tobias while
he keeps on asking for a doctor for Vedat.
The officer enters and takes people out. The
story ends with Tobias moving past Gokce's
body while Vedat’s phone rings on the floor.